Lona can't wait to get the cages
completed
they've been kitted out with this
recycled rubber which will allow the
orangutan to climb build nests and play
there also eight times bigger than the
old ones I do not like watching them
sitting in those small cages it's it's
so sad sitting just sitting in there
behind bars it's just like being
interesting time these old cages were
only ever intended for orangutans to
spend four weeks enduring their
quarantine but the center was never
built to look after 600 orangutans it's
severely overstretched
some orangutans have seen their short
stay turned into months verging on years
even before work is completed loner is
desperate to move orangutans into the
larger cages at the top of her list is
woo woo he's blind and can never go back
to the wild his life of darkness must be
very lonely but this move may give him a
little of what he's been missing
it must be terrifying not being able to
see or understand what's happening but
Lona has a plan that will improve his
quality of life
in his new cage woo-wooo is going to
have a companion a young male called
Jojo I want him to get some company I
think I feel very sorry for him just
being all by himself good y'all they're
just a little bit stress right now
because we all can't obviously he
doesn't know what what the other one is
the other thing he doesn't know how big
he is so I think I just like right now
with the vocalizing they can sort of get
an idea about how big they're you know
for him it must be so scary subtle not
being able to see anything he wasn't
blind you know he's just has come blind
over the last maybe six months or so he
was so like partially blind when we got
him but we couldn't reverse see what was
already happening
because of his degenerative eye disease
guru's journey will end at the center
there's nowhere else for him to go but
lowness still insists on offering him
the best life he can possibly experience
we're trying to save the species but you
can't sort of help having to save those
individuals that I mean this is our the
cause of us so we sort of owe it to them
hopefully hopefully we can put him on an
island we're hoping that he will get so
used to us by then that you but by
hearing our voice and you'll be able to
come come into the feeding places
we'll see how it goes